Introduction:
-------------

This is a functional spec for Winapt, which is a package management system
for Win32, similar to such systems for UNIX-like systems (e.g: Debian's 
apt-get/dpkg, RedHat's rpm/yum, Mandriva's rpm/urpmi, smart or
Gentoo's portage).

(The characters are taken from http://www.ozyandmillie.org/ )

Scenario 1: "We Want Free Stuff"
--------------------------------

Millie is a young fox girl who likes to use Windows XP, and still haven't
gotten around to install Linux. However, she is tired of keeping up with
the various open-source and non-open-source software she has on her computer:
Inkscape, eMule, Firefox, Thunderbird, Paint Shop Pro, etc. At one point
her geek friend Stefan the Aardvark (who is a die-hard Linux user) recommends 
her to install Winapt, so she can manage her software.

She browses to the winapt site, downloads the installer, accepts the EULA,
and installs the software. Then she starts the dialog which downloads the
updated remote-sources lists and then packages lists. It detects which
software is installed on her computer, and automatically upgrades it. Then
it gives her a long list of other software.

Millie installs the "Pink Flamingo Bathtub Game", the "Tomboy Tomboy edition"
note taker, the "Burn ants burn" real-life simulator, and a game to put
electronic needles on Ayn Rand's face. She goes to sleep happy.

The next day when she wakes up, Winapt informs her that she has updates for
her installed programs, and gives her the option of selectively 
upgrading them.

Scenerio 2: "Kids Just Wanna Have Fun"
--------------------------------------

Stefan and Millie are distressed. They were placed in charge of their
school's computer lab. While the server is a SGI Altix super-computer running
Linux that is very low-maintenance and hardly ever gives them any problems,
they also have 100s of Windows NT computers which require a lot of manual 
configuration. Every once in a while, a kid asks for a piece of software which 
they need to install on every computer. As a result, it's 100's of 
->Next->Next->Finish calls.

They decide to solve it once and for all. They install Winapt on all the
computers, and configure it to run in the background and at startup. Winapt
first checks for a mirror of the files on the Linux server, so they won't have
to overload their school's bandwidth. Whenever they need a new piece of software
Stefan runs this command on the server:

$ winapt-spread --install Inkscape GIMP OnM-Comics-Reader

This command downloads the programs and connects to all the clients to install
these softwares.

Stefan and Millie are happy and now have much more time for playing
"Quake 10: Furry Showdown".

Scenario 3: "I'm not a Technical Sheep! I just want to use my computer."
------------------------------------------------------------------------

Felicia is popular girl that no one seems to like in the class of Millie and
Stefan. She's not a geek (of computers or otherwise), and just uses her
computer to draw pictures of ponies ("OMG!!! They're so cute") using Inkscape.

At one point she discovers a way to consistently make Inkscape crash, and
reports it in the Inkscape bug tracker. The Inkscape developer is Stefan
who is a die-hard Linux user, and while being able to cross-compile to Windows
will never run it. What Stefan does to see if his bug-fix helps Felicia
is:

1. Build a modified package.

2. Upload it to the Inkscape master site under a different "patched" directory.

3. Instruct Felicia to enter the patch ID in a special Inkscape 
dialog (also possible using the Winapt GUI).

Felicia then installs the patch, see that it works, and tells Stefan about
it. Stefan is happy and integrates the source patch into the mainline.

Another Inkscape bug was fixed.
